[policy] Default build flags (#3343)
habitat-sh/core-plans: docs/dev/policy_documents/default-build-flags.md

we created does.

However, it is common practice for distributions to set a default
level of optimization for all builds. This is in part because some
security features are also tied to having optimization enabled:

For example,

- [Omnibus: -02](https://github.com/chef/omnibus/blob/0baf021d62d9e61687e2d7efbac865a9640027c2/lib/omnibus/software.rb#L753)
- [NixPkgs: -02 enabled when hardening is enabled (which is the default)](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/4707dc6454904bee0bacd3a53829bcc76b4f0667/pkgs/build-support/cc-wrapper/add-hardening.sh#L41)
- [Debian: -02](https://manpages.debian.org/testing/dpkg-dev/dpkg-buildflags.1.en.html)

## Security

Compilers have implemented a broad range of security
mitigations. These include things like stack protectors that help
prevent security bugs because of buffer overflows, automatic rewriting
of unsafe libc functions into safer variants, and position independent
executables to support address space layout randomization which makes
various exploits harder to write.

These mitigations are enabled via compiler and linker flags.  Most
distributions have made such flags their default:

> https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/Harden_All_Packages

Reviewer: I think you missed the `-` to make a list (it's hard to read otherwise)

Author: Thanks, fixed!

https://wiki.debian.org/HardeningWalkthrough
https://nixos.org/nixpkgs/manual/#sec-hardening-in-nixpkgs
https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Hardened

## Why a Policy?

Multiple users have attempted to make progress on this issue in the
past. For example,

- https://github.com/habitat-sh/core-plans/issues/587
- https://github.com/habitat-sh/core-plans/pull/881

A set policy is likely needed because:

- The effort to fix this across all builds is non-trivial

- Some portion of the effort will need to be an acceptance criteria
  for future core-plan refreshes.

- Eventually `hab-plan-build` integration will be required.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

In the reference-level explanation, a multi-phase implementation
approach is recommended. This section only provides an explanation for
the first phase, as the details of the later phases are contingent on
what we learn from phase 1.

core-plans maintainers and contributors would need to apply hardening
flags to their plans. This would be done by sourcing a shared script
in their plan:

    . includes/hardening-defaults.sh

> A test will be added to the continuous integration system that checks

Reviewer 2: Are we making new packages that are hardened?  In other words, is there is a set that consumers have always used which are non-hardened and then there is a new experimental set that is hardened?

Author: My preference would be that we don't split this into two sets.  Rather, we roll these improvements out into the plans that everyone uses.  This is part of the reason I've written up a phased approach and stuck to the set of flags other distributions also widely apply.

the produced libraries and binaries for indicators that the hardening
has been applied. These tests will only run for plans that have opted
in to the default flags.

Changes to the default set of flags applied to core-plans does not
need to go through an RFC process and can rather go through the normal
pull-request process to update the above mentioned script.

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

> A mutli-phased approach will help us quickly improve the quality of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A multi-phased approach will help us quickly improve the quality of
```

core-plans while working on a feature robust enough for inclusion in
hab-plan-build.

## Phase 1: Tooling and Manual Application of Easy-to-apply-flags

Experience shows that the following flags can be applied to a broad
range of software without substantial problems:

- `-02`: Default optimization level used by most distributions. Does
  not introduce the danger typically associated with `-03`.

- `--stack-protector-strong`: Stack protection that tries to balance
  attack mitigation with performance.

- `-D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2`: A glibc macro that adds checks to commonly

>   misused functions in order to prevent buffe oveflow errors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  misused functions in order to prevent buffer overflow errors.
```
